# Cost Reduction Analysis

## Problem Description

In this project, we analyze the data from a customer support team that uses chat to assist customers, with the aim of reducing costs. The company believes that it is overstaffing parts of the support operation. In response, it's tasked us with outlining a plan to eliminate at least 10% of labor costs while maintaining the same level of responsiveness. The out expected includes a spreadsheet of our analysis as well as a summary of the results in 5 slides or fewer.  

The company currently staffs two different shifts each day – an AM shift (8:00 – 14:59) and a PM shift (15:00 – 21:59). Each shift is exactly seven hours. Additionaly, we're informed the company has introduced a new policy where a shift length can be any duration and have any start time, provided the shift is greater than four hours.

### Data
Below is information about the arrival of inbound customer conversations. 

**Table 1 – Count of Inbound Conversations Per Hour**
|Hour|Sunday|Monday|Tuesday|Wednesday|Thursday|Friday|Saturday|
|----|----|----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
|8:00	|9	|13	|13	|15	|15	|15	|13 |
|9:00	|13	|19	|19	|21	|21	|21	|19 |
|10:00|19 |27	|27	|30	|30	|30	|27 |
|11:00|27	|38	|38	|42	|42	|42	|38 |
|12:00|49	|69	|69	|76	|76	|76	|69 |
|13:00|89	|125|125|137|137|137|125|
|14:00|161|225|225|247|247|247|225|
|15:00|81	|113|113|124|124|124|113|
|16:00|41	|57	|57 |62	|62	|62 |57 |
|17:00|103|143|143|155|155|155|143|
|18:00|155|215|215|233|233|233|215|
|19:00|233|323|323|350|350|350|323|
|20:00|94	|130|130|140|140|140|130|
|21:00|29	|39	|39	|42	|42	|42	|39 |


### Assumptions:
1)	It takes an average of 3 minutes of active time to resolve a conversation. Since this assumption is based on active time, you do not need to think about concurrent conversation participation.
2)	Conversation arrival is uniformly distributed within each hour.
3)	Customers expect “live” (or near-live) response times from chat support.
4)	A chat agent will work the entirety of their shift without a break and with uniform productivity.
5)	Attendance is 100%, meaning that there is no need to budget for call-outs.
6)	Chat agent hourly wage is $12.

## Solution

Our solution includes two files:
1. A spreadsheet with our analysis, calculations, and outputs.
2. A slide presentation summarizing our results and suggestions.

We start our analysis by figuring out the number agents needed at the hourly level and use a heat map to visualize this value.

From observing the heat map, we can see that there are peaks and troughs throughout the day. The current schedule does not take these variations into account, so we opt for a schedule where shifts align with these variations.

We also observe that the week can be broken down into three demand profiles. We use these to create three sets of shifts. The shift times are identical across the sets, but the number of agents per shift varies.

Finally, we check that these shifts meet the hourly demand and determine the amount of cost reduction generated by the suggested schedule.

### Spreadsheet
- `Current Staffing`: This tab shows how many agents need to be staffed for each shift (AM/PM) every day, given the maximum hourly demand expected. It also shows the current amount of labor hours and cost under this system.
- `Proposed Staffing`: This tab contains the analysis and results, including the recommended shift structure, number of agents per shift, and labor cost under the proposed system.
